the human rights Chief vulat Turk says
that he's troubled by measures taken to
disperse protests against Israel's war
on Gaza in universities across the
United States dozens of protesters have
barricaded themselves inside a building
at Columbia University in New York the
group has taken over Hamilton Hall which
has a history of student takeovers
including during the Vietnam war they
infered a banner calling it Hines wall
in memory of a six-year-old girl killed
in Gaza it came ours after the
university started suspending student
demonstrators who defired an ultimatum
to leave their
encampments well in a moment we'll speak
to shab bransi we'll have the latest
from George Washington University in the
US capital where he is but first let's
speak to Christen salumi she joins us
now from Columbia University in New York
Where it All Began Kristen uh various
universities and schools obviously
joining the protest so what's happening
where you are on Tuesday
access to the Columbia University campus
has been greatly restricted today after
the Takeover of that building Hamilton
Hall now only students who live on
campus and essential faculty are being
allowed there uh no media access in
recent days there's been limited access
for media During certain times to get on
the campus but we're being told that no
media will be allowed today uh due to
safety conditions unless safety
conditions on campus change that said
I've been speaking with one of the
student organizers of the encampment and
he says that the mood on campus is quite
calm in fact he uh estimates that
there's actually more people in the
encampment today than there were
yesterday when the word came that the uh
students would be suspended as of 2:
p.m. if they did not uh evacuate their
encampment that just brought out
hundreds of supporters students and
teachers surrounding the encampment uh
protecting the encampment
that continued throughout the day and
into the evening when a separate group
of students and I'm told by this
organizer that this group who took over
Hamilton Hall is a uh separate group
from the encampment uh the there were
people on board for for that they were
protecting the space outside when that
happened and if you see behind me uh
this is the one gate that's opened and
Hamilton Hall is the building uh behind
me there's one Banner hanging out the
window that says free Palestine as well
as other uh banners on the other side of
the building facing the campus so what's
the police response been to all of this
Kristen there is still a fairly heavy
police presence outside of the campus
you can see the barricades that were set
up behind me those were put there by New
York police officers uh yesterday there
was a very very heavy police presence
around the campus including Vans and the
type of vehicles that would be used to
take protesters to be processed were
they arrested and this was fueling the
rumors that there would be arrests if
the students did not Evacuate the area
it didn't happen in the end uh the
police never did go on campus they're
not on campus now they're just outside
clearly the university does not want a
repeat of what happened uh two weeks ago
when they sent the NYPD onto the campus
to arrest students that only outraged
the student community and brought more
supporters out and started this movement
that we're seeing nationally at other
campuses uh and if there's one thing
that the faculty of the University agree
on it is that they don't approve of the
response that the administration took
for its students the university Senate
condemned the administration for calling
in the NYPD so clearly uh the n
the Administration has been reluctant to
have a repeat of that but at the same
time they're facing pressure from their
trustees to get this under control
before graduation in two weeks we'll
continue to monitor with you what
happens through the day at Columbia
University fiston leave me there for us
thank you well let's head over to the US
capital now where sh bran is standing by
George Washington University the past
few days we've been uh seeing highly
well attended protests uh calm and
peaceful uh is it still like that
sheab it's remarkably tranquil soell
people are just having their breakfasts
now the students there was a
calisthetics just underway over behind
one of those tents over there let's talk
to one of the student organizers though
Miriam um it is peaceful here is there
any indication that that that's likely
to change now though I mean we know that
the authorities at GW George Washington
University have been calling on the
police to crack down but what's your
sense now yeah so we're not sure exactly
what's going to happen here um but what
we do know is that um we're here
fighting for our demands we're demanding
that the university protect Pro
Palestinian speech on campus that they
drop all charges against organizers and
organizations um who are fighting
against genocide um that they disclose
all Investments and endowments divest
from all funds related to Israel and and
all academic Partnerships with the
Zionist state of Israel and all we know
is that we're going to be here fighting
for those demands until they're met and
we're going to keep fighting I was going
to say because term is actually ending
today I think isn't it so you're going
to stay for the foreseeable future
though yes we will be staying we're not
going anywhere until our demands are met
we are staying now it's a contrast here
though to the scenes we're seeing in
other campuses around the country what's
going through your mind though when you
see the police cracking down in Austin
or elsewhere with pepper spray and
batons I mean what what do you make of
all that yeah so um I you know nowhere
is the police keeping us safe um what
we've seen here is just an incredible
full amount of community support the
community is really showing up for each
other we keep each other safe um and we
know we cannot trust the police or the
University or any other institution to
do that for us right so I mean and yet
the police say that they're they're
going to they're not going to crack down
so what I mean should we say should we
conclude from that then then suddenly
there's an outpouring of democratic
values in the Metropolitan Police
Department no I don't think that
um that the concern with Optics um and
removing peaceful protesters is saying
anything about um uh you know how how uh
liberal the cops are here um really it's
just about it's an obstal issue um and
you know we see gup uh
gwpd um George Washington Police
Department had asked um the Metropolitan
Police Department to clear this
encampment um and they had refused um so
we are seeing that the university um is
pushing for us to be removed because we
are being disruptive um we have to be
disruptive there's no business as usual
during a genocide we've just had another
statement from the White House again um
characterizing the protest as
anti-semitic President Biden it says
condemns the use of the term inter
father and the anti-semitic slogans that
have been thrown around in the last few
days I'm paraphrasing what do you make
of that and there is this disconnect
isn't there between what the White House
is saying and in fact actually the
Democratic party college students
Association has just come out in favor
of the protest there the leadership does
seem rather isolated on this yeah so I
think that um really the our demands are
clear um and you know they have nothing
to do with the Jewish people I as a Jew
myself I feel more safe being Jewish
here in this encampment than I do
outside of this encampment and that is
because everyone here believes in
Collective Liberation for all people I
know that I'm included in that um and
just the conflation that we've been
seeing between um what we're doing with
our demands our anti-zionist demands um
and anti-Semitism is a complete
diversion tactic um to take the focus
away from what's going on in Palestine
um the genocide that we've been seeing
for over 200 days um to the Palestinian
people Mariam thank you thank you so
much so yes all quiet here as as we said
though not for want of trying on the
part of the administrators so we will
see how this how this does pan out as
always these things can change so
quickly sh there for us uh in Washington
DC thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz